3 Characteristics of the Compound
================
Jaap Slootweg, Joris Quik
2025-09-02

Several characteristics are calculated based on substance of material
properties.

For molecular chemicals characteristics, see section [3.1 Molecular
characteristics](vignettes/Molecular%20characteristics.md).

For particles properties that are needed and are calculated, see section
[3.2 Particle
characteristics](vignettes/3.2%20Particle%20characteristics.md "Particle characteristics").

Correct input data is the responsibility of the model user. We currently
do no provide a well curated chemical database. An example database is
included and stored in `data/substances.csv` and
`data/SubstanceCompartments.csv` and
`data/SubstanceSubCompartSpeciesData.csv`
<!--# PM update and include tables of all properties-->

Properties related to the substance directly are all contained in these
csv files that serve as the input data for SimpleBox. These can be
accessed after initializing the SimpleBox world for a specific substance
type where particulate is the primary distinction currently.

Each property is accessed by a key, which is dependent on the amount of
detail that is required for the property of the substance (e.g. a
property that is dependent on both the SubCompartment and the Scale
would need both of these keys to be accessed). One could edit the csv
files to add other substances or use the setConst or MutateVars
functions which can be used to link model input to other chemical
property data sources.

The key for the density of the matrix is subcompartment. But it is
“inherited” from the datafile “matrix.csv”. This inheritance is
performed in the initialisation; if you look for rhoMatrix as a
parameter for defining function use World\$fetchData()
